Hey, and welcome to chapter nine.
This is Python dictionaries.
My favorite chapter in the whole book is files because that's where it sorta
comes together.
This may be your favorite chapter.
Python dictionaries are one of the things that people sort of fall in love with,
and Python is like, I can do so many things with dictionaries.
And dictionaries are our second data structure, our second kind of collection.
And the basic definition of a collection is
more than one thing in a single variable, and a way of indexing, and looking up, and
manipulating things in that single variable.
And so, we have the list, and now we have the dictionary.
And between lists and dictionaries, you pretty much get the two most important and
most basic data structures, not just in Python, but in any programming language.
So to review the idea of collections,
we put more than one thing in that whereas a regular old variable
that's not a collection and non-collection variable like x.
We stick a 2 in, we say x equals 4, and we sort of implicitly know that now it has
a 4 in it, but the 2 is long gone, it's been overwritten.
So the two collections we've talked about, the list is a very ordered collection,
everything is very precise, zero, one, two, three,
four, you append at the end, and when you start deleting, you sort of,
it's always stays compacted in the position is the key to it.
But a dictionary is a more of a mess, you put things in and
you give them a label, and you get things back out.
And so, they don't always stay in order, the order shifts around.
But they're super powerful because it's a key value pair, and you give each item
a key, you give it a key on the way in, and you get a key on the way back out.
And so, inside of a dictionary, everything has to have a label.
You can't just put something in a dictionary,
you have to give it a label and a value, or a key and a value.
And so, the key is, when we say key, it's like the thing to unlock or
the thing to find that thing.
It's a general concept in many languages called an Associative Array, and
you can kinda look up and learn a bit more about Associate Arrays.
And in most languages, like Perl or PHP, the Associative Array is, again,
most people's favorite data structure because you can do so many things with it.
So dictionaries are Python's most powerful collection.
It's like a little baby database, key value.
You look something up, either name and a phone number, or a phone number and name.
But there's a key and a value in there.
And like I said, these concept of dictionaries has many different names in
many languages like HashMaps in Java or Property Bags in C#, or
Associative Arrays in Perl or PHP.
But the basic are the same thing, they're memory-based key value stores.
So like I said,
the whole idea of these collections is they have more than one thing.
But the question is, how you put stuff in and how you get stuff out is what changes.
And so here, we're gonna make a dictionary.
And this is a constructor that basically says, make me an empty dictionary object.
If we're doing this with a constant, we just use a curly braces.
Curly braces are for dictionaries.
And then, so purse is a variable of type dictionary, and it now has nothing in it.
Whereas in a list, we had to append stuff.
We use the index operator on the left-hand side of an assignment statement
to indicate the key.
So this ends up being the value, and this is the key, the key value pair.
And so, we're putting 12 into the purse, but on the way in,
we're labeling it with money, right?
And so, 12 is going in, 12 is the value, and we're putting it into purse, but
we're storing it under money.
So I would say this as purse of money equals 12, money is the label,
the index, the tag, whatever you wanna call it,
but it is the way we're going to label this number 12 as we go in.
And we're gonna put 3 in and we're gonna label it candy, and
we're gonna put 75 in it, and we're gonna label it tissues.
So inside a purse, we have these key value pairs, say hey, what's in purse?
Well, money is 3, under the tag tissues, we have 75, and
under the tag candy, we have 3.
Its important that the order of these dictionaries is somewhat unpredictable.
They don't always come out in the same order.
And so, we’ll have to learn later about how to sort them and
how to do stuff to them, but think of them for now as an unsorted bag of values,
but it does remember no matter how they get moved around,
what the label to value mapping is.
To pull something out, we say purse ['candy'].
So we use the exact label that we used to put it in,
we use that to pull it back out.
So purse ['candy'] is 12, so it says, go look up and find in this dictionary,
the thing that has a key of candy and pull then that number out.
And so, that's the number that comes out and gets printed.
We can update these variables though a dictionary contents are mutable,
which means they can be changed.
So we can go grab the old value purse ['candy'] which is a 3, add 2 to it, and
then put a 5 back in.
And then, we can print this out and then the 3 has been modified to become 5.
So we can use them on right-hand sides of expressions,
on left-hand sides of expressions, away you go.
So it's really a lot like this,
if we look at an example from a previous chapter on these lists.
Now, we make an empty list, we make an empty dictionary.
We add into position 0, which is because it's empty.
At 21, we put in position 183.
Here, we put into this dictionary under the key age 21, and
into this dictionary under the key course, we put in 182, right?
And if we print them, we see that there is an implicit position,
position 0 and position 1.
There's an implicit position so we don't have to show the position, I mean,
Python could choose to show that but it doesn't.
And then, if we print a dictionary, it shows us with curly braces to say this
is a dictionary, not a list, and it uses this key colon value, key colon value.
And order, again, isn't the same.
We put in age then course and we got out course then age.
Just don't expect the order of dictionaries to be a predictable thing.
And then continuing on, they're mutable, which means we say, lists sub zero.
And this is the index.
So in a list, the index is the position and we put a 23.
We put a 23 into position 0, and so when we see that, we see a 23 coming out.
And here, if we're gonna change something,
we're gonna say, go find that thing marked with the tag age and replace that with 23.
So that puts the 23 in here and replaces it with 23, and so
when we print that out, we get 23.
But basically, they're similar but dictionaries have these labels that
we have to use everywhere and lists have positions.
So lists are compacted, they all start at 0, even if there's none in there,
it doesn't start at 0 but if there's one or more things, the first one is always 0.
And while we haven't deleted stuff from list, once we start deleted
stuff from list, they get compacted but not true from dictionaries.
They just kinda remove the key cuz they're not particularly in any order anyways.
So again, we can see this all happening.
I'd like to think of in my mind a picture of these things,
where a list has kind of a key or the way we look something up 0, 1.
And if there were more of these, it would 0, 1, and 2.
Whereas the dictionary, the key is some kind of a string,
this is how we look it up, and they both have values, right?
They both have values in them, and that's how it works, and
so when we put these things in, the list gets extended.
It's always gonna be extended at the end, if you call to pin again there would be
a sub two in here, and it puts a number in there, and we print them out, and
then when we go and change this 23, put it in here, it gets wiped out.
They're mutable, which means these values are mutable.
The keys are sort of not in list, the keys are simply an artifact.
You can't change them but you can delete items, you can delete items from list
which we haven't done yet, but we will be able to delete items from list.
And so, the same thing is true.
We can delete items here, which we haven't done yet, but you can also change them.
So, ddd ['age'] will go look up age, and then stick 23 in there,
and that's changing.
So they're very similar structures,
the key difference, the significant difference is that the key mechanism,
the way we look up an entry inside the collection is different between them.
We can make constants and
the printouts of these things conveniently in Python show us the constant syntax.
So it's like, what's in this dictionary?
So we start with a curly brace for a constant, a curly brace.
And then we have key, value, key, value, key, value.
Now, I have been using strings for keys and numbers for
values, which is actually a pretty common shape but doesn't have to be that.
So just because I'm using, doesn't mean it's always that way.
So this creates a dictionary constant, and
then that gets assigned in the jjj variable.
Just like it's no different than saying x = 3,
this is an integer constant that gets assigned into x.
We print it out, and it looks exactly kinda the same but
the order's different because dictionaries messed with the order.
You can make empty dictionaries with just curly braces and print those out as well.
So up next, we're gonna start talking about the kinds of applications that we're
going to use, the kinds of problems that we're gonna solve using dictionaries.